last two or three times I was there Doug
Leone was in the office you know he's
retired I don't know if that's correct
uh because I see him there uh people
like Bill gurley's retired every time I
see him he's talking to startups and
he's on the boards of all these
companies so uh Veno kosa is in his 70s
and he's you know in meetings all week
long Jason calacanis virtually every
single person in Tech knows you but a
lot of people don't know your full
background you've had a prolific career
starting in 1996 as founder in several
Tech Publications you next sold web
blogs for $25 million to AOL and today
you're doing many interesting projects
you're you have two of the top podcasts
in the world including Allin podcast
which is number one and also this week
in startups and you're also founder and
CEO of launch founder and CEO of
inside.com you're venture capitalist
it's an honor to have you on the show
Welcome to limited partner podcast thank
you for having me I've been very much
enjoying your pod uh I'm raising a fund
right now so it's top of mind and uh
yeah I started as a journalist here in
New York where I am now doing LP
meetings I'm also LP in 24 funds now and
I add one maybe two managers a year uh
so I am like a super super heavy uh my
entire wealth is in homes venture
capital and the stocks that come out of
the Venture Capital funds I'm in and
that's it uh a little bit in equities
but really most of the equities I have
are the output of the Venture funds I'm
in it reminds me of the old saying if
you want to be a millionaire diversify
if you want to be a billionaire
concentrate so so let's let's jump into
that you said you're an LP in 24 funds
why did you inve decide to invest into
these 2 for our funds yeah well you know
when I was an angel investor before I
was an angel investor I just would help
my friends raise money and the way I got
into it was I had SEO had invested in
one of my companies and I introduced
introduced them to three founders and I
said hey you know my friend's doing an
electric car my other friend's doing a
poker game and my third friend's doing
this micro blogging site and there you
know rule off and was like yeah we know
Elon we we're involved in pay you know
we worked together at PayPal I said oh
yeah you got to see this thing he's
doing it's crazy
I showed them Twitter and I showed them
Zinga poker and you know I talked to EV
Williams he's like hey you're you're
friends with Fred Wilson in New York I
said yeah you know his wife Joanne and I
work together on Silicon alley reporter
and I worked briefly for Acme Ventures
their first Venture Capital firm reading
business plans for them in
1996 um Fred's amazing but he's in New
York and then Sequoya seoa that's the
best in the world I think Fred would
tell you to go with seoa but um you know
I I kind of like Fred too so for me it's
a jump ball like that's like picking you
you know between vanilla and chocolate
like two two great flavors maybe you get
them both to invest and um Twitter
famously went with Fred and then uh
after that the team at seoa said hey you
know you're pretty good at this we you
be our first Scout and I said what's a
scout and they said oh we give you money
you invest it and then we split it
50/50 and I said to Doug and Michael
morit and Rule off hey uh don't you guys
get like 2 and 20 isn't that how Venture
Capital works and they said uh well uh
actually we're SEO Capital we get 30 and
three and whatever you know they get a
little more I was like wow that's a
pretty good deal why would you give me a
better deal um and uh they said it it
was not going to amount to much these
are very small numbers you know 25 50k
into companies and so then I proceeded
to put like I don't know 600k to work
and turn it into 120 million and every
time I gave to SEO Doug Le we just put
his hand on his head and go 50% carry oh
my God 50% carry uh but they got me
started in Angel Investing and my my
point with being in LP was I didn't
think of myself as an angel investor in
those early days I didn't particularly
have a lot of capital you know having
sold web blogs for 30 million um you
know I had made my first 10 but I I
never really thought I need to put you
know money into other people's companies
I should invest in myself um which I
think is generally a good idea I think
that's what Elon does um he doesn't
invest in other companies just goes all
in on his own and I was kind of cut from
that same cloth but then I realized wow
I just have a lot of smart friends I
probably should invest in them and um
when the opportunity to be LPN funds
came around I was like you know I just
love this asset class uh my wife and I
referred to it as like wealth bombs you
put 100,000 or 250 or 500k into a fund
and then 7 8 9 10 11 12 years later boom
bombs start going off and money just
goes flying everywhere and you just try
to catch it in a bag and you know it's
just I've been super lucky to be in some
of the best funds in the world um and
then you know participate with new
managers so Sophia Amarosa um who you
probably know nasty gal and um girl boss
you know she told me she was raising a
fund I gave her some advice um and put a
you know a small check in so I'll put
2550 100K into those emerging manager
mons funds in the larger funds which I
have access to you know some of the top
funds in the world who I have
affiliation with I'll be able to put in
100 to 500k I just keep moving my money
into to venture uh like I said I think
it's the best asset class in the world
money managers call me all the time and
they say hey I want to manage your money
and I'm like you know uh
respectfully um did you were you the
third or fourth investor in Uber or did
you invest in Robin Hood or Comm when
they were $5 million or $10 million
companies no can you get us into those
I'm like yeah you you could be LPS in my
fund uh and I just think like you like
you said concentrated better than and uh
if you want to Let's unpack that uh so a
couple things to unpack there you said
wealth bonds that's interesting I've
never seen it it really is that that's
you're talking about power law Atomic
type explosions um but you did gloss
over or something you're like 8 10 12
years talk about the journey the journey
to your first Carry check I think that's
a philosophical point that a lot of
people die on if you look at not the
power lot the distribution of LPS 99% of
individuals cannot deal with the first 8
to 10 years yeah I mean I I wrote a book
called Angel and uh it talks about
exactly the stomach you need to have for
being a private Market investor you know
when you're a public market investor
you're studying you know a decade of
Netflix returns or Google returns or or
now Tesla returns and you start to see
Trends and patterns and predictability
and you just don't have that at the
early stage and then it's kind of rare
for a public company to go to zero I
mean you can lose 80% of your money but
you know you you kind of watch that
happen over 6 months typically or two or
three quarters and you got plenty of
time to jump off the train if you don't
like the direction it's going and and
jump on another train right just you run
across the tracks you know you don't
like what's happening at Disney you you
run across the tracks you put your money
into Amazon or vice versa most people
look at investing and they bring the
public market mindset uh and that is um
very difficult and then of course you
have the J curve so you find out your
losers first and then you find out your
Winner's last and then you find out the
extent of your winnner you know the last
two or three double UPS become the
largest you have to be able to weather
that storm and unless you've been in
Silicon Valley and watched the wealth
bombs go off it just like employees you
know you go to Canada or you you hire in
you know engineers in India or in Brazil
like a lot of companies are doing you
know startups and large companies that
the equity culture doesn't exist there
they don't understand stock options rsus
give me give me money now so I think
unless you've been in Silicon Valley and
you've watched one of your friends you
know take down $10 million with stock
options and then buy some great house
and a ski house you're just it's it's an
abstraction um then yeah and it's very
visceral right it's also very random and
so that's another thing people have to
get used to is the randomness of this
because listen you know I was on stage
with Veno kosla at the all-in summit and
they were talking about how he had the
you know one of the greatest Investments
of all time 2500x and I just thought to
myself oh yeah you know Uber was 4,000 x
for me now he'd put a lot more money to
work work uh you know I put a minuscule
amount of money to work in that famous
investment but um that's random um and
it's random but it's not random uh it
turns out I knew Travis when I was a
journalist he had spoken uh at one of my
conferences when he had scour in 1997 or
98 uh and he was 24 and I was maybe 27
or 26 um and then I knew him when he was
doing red swoosh uh and we had been
friends and done some Jam sessions on
that so you know when I did invest uh in
Uber I had had known him for 10 years so
there's random and then somebody at a
party it was just a very Charming story
um you know was very upset at the fact
that I'd hit the grand slam of all time
and just said something really deriding
me in front of Travis and Travis said
I'm going to stop you right there you
don't know how helpful Jason's been to
me on my first two companies uh and what
a tireless supporter he's been of that
all of that is how he earned the Uber
investment uh and he earned every penny
of it probably more and he just shut the
person down
and um you know I was very it was very
touching for me because if you look at
my career um I've done 1800 episodes of
this week in startups I do it four or
five days a week and then I do all in
and I really try to help Founders and uh
you know I have a 19 person firm now and
we take it very seriously when we put
our names into those companies we tell
the founders which I learned from rule
off at
Sequoia as long as you want to run this
company we're going to be with you um it
doesn't matter if you run out of money
if you're on fumes if you make uh you
know a million dollars a year for 10
years in a row and it doesn't grow we
quit when you quit and when you quit we
invest in your next company uh and when
Raul sold reportive to LinkedIn he was
one of four Founders there and I was
writing Angel checks I had emailed info
at reportive and sent him you know
whatever 50k or something um and he's
like oh I like your new podcast this we
can start off so I listen to all seven
episodes like I don't know are you on
your first 10 I think you're 13 perfect
so lucky number being well yeah actually
so I said to R you just promise me you
know we made three times our money on on
reportive four times or whatever so it
was it was insignificant I said just
make me one promise when you um get
tired of working at LinkedIn and you
start your next Company please let me be
the first call and so on a Sunday I get
that D on my phone um in when I lived in
San Francisco I live in the the the bay
you know south of the city now um it was
him and I just wrote back to him um
what's the idea and where are you and he
said phone rings I pick it up he says
how do you know I have a new idea I said
well 2 and a half years ago I told you
when your sentence is over at linkon
when you when you complete your burnout
you know so where are you and he said
I'm in noi Valley or whatever I said
okay I'm getting Bagels come by the
house and he came over and he said hit
me with the new idea he said uh we're
going to take on Gmail I said perfect uh
great big Target um how are you going to
beat Gmail cuz it's free you know uh and
uh they got like a billion US he said oh
I'm going to make it faster the person
with the largest cloud in the world and
unlimited resources you're going to
build a faster version of Gmail with a
startup he said yeah and he explained to
me why and made total sense and then I
said okay hit me with the business model
he says dollar a day I said okay let me
repeat back what you said to me you're
going to take on the largest cloud
computing provider in the world with the
largest number of email users and you're
going to beat them on speed and then
you're going to charge a dollar a day
$365 a year for a product that is
currently being experienced for free
from countless providers he said
absolutely I said I'm in uh because it's
those kind of crazy ideas that actually
are outliers I think maybe put a half
million dollar into that it was one of
our biggest bets uh in the 10 million
the first fund $10 million and I think
we own 2% of the company or something um
at this point and I think hubspot's
founder uh dares and I are the first two
investors and I think dares claims he's
the first and I claim I'm the first but
we were I think his investors in
reportive and so we like to stick with
Founders you know um I just had found to
come back for a second time and we're
giving them 250 or 500k for 5% of the
company um just on the idea so very few
people actually stick it out and I think
that's that's evident by by by uh Travis
and baru a lot of people deride you or
make fun of you for for mentioning Uber
so many times but we have a 4,000 times
return and when you look at Power laws
you should be mentioning that 4,000
times most more than most VCS talk about
their Investments well Comm is another
good one you know people don't know
about Comm yeah yeah let's unpack you
have Robin Hood Thumbtack Comm wealth
run a lot of people first of all don't
know that you invest in the seed rounds
of of all five of those that or preed
yeah seed preed so it's changed over
time uh the first fun was 10 so I was a
seoa scout I was the first Syndicate on
angelist and the first deal we ever did
was Cal and so we put 50k in from our
firm as we were apt to do uh at a $5
million valuation and then Naval had
shared with me the interface for
syndicates and uh I I didn't know that
he was just showing it to me he's like
hey check this out so I checked it out
and I just was investing in com so I
filled it out I shared it on Twitter and
then I launched this deal and he's like
oh I I was just showing you don't don't
you you broke the Embargo I was like do
you want me to delete the Tweet he's
like I don't worry about it um and the
first deal we did was com.com um which
later Alex and um Michael uh had told me
they were they had met with like 40
Venture Capital so everybody said no and
um The Syndicate came up with I think
$328,000 so it had magnified my
investment 6 and a half the 50k had put
in so we put $378,000 in I believe and
um at a $5 million valuation they later
told me they had a crisis of conscience
should they take my money because they
were sure they were going to lose it um
but they did it anyway um and the
company became worth over a billion
dollars this episode is sponsored by
tactic every day over 300 Venture
Capital funds utilize tactic for
portfolio modeling in order to make up
to-the-minute portfolio construction
decisions tactic is used for both
internal decision making as well as
fundraising allowing both emerging and
established managers to share portfolio
data with prospective limited partners
I'm a happy customer of tactic. and I
recommend tactic for both emerging and
established managers check them out at
tactic.
tc. uh we sold twice in secondary you
know and you know locked in over $10
million in gains for rlps which I always
do I sell 10% two or three times on the
way up I did that with Uber anytime we
have the opportunity I I try to lock in
some wins I think that's still the the
the greatest Syndicate investment ever
done maybe cruise I think there was a
later stage of cruise that might have
also done well uh that somebody did
probably higher IR it was like a
one-year turnaround yeah I mean that it
became yeah I think that's our that's
our mutual friend Zach colus yeah Zach's
amazing so Zach I have a lot of respect
for you know working in the early stage
is 10 times 20 times more work um and so
you know but I enjoy it so I think as a
fund manager you have to do what you
love and how I pick fund managers is
typically what's their unique deal flow
uh and then second uh I really look for
how they make their selection process
you know how they make the bet because
you have a funnel like there's your deal
flow and then there's what you pick and
then I think the third piece is super
important is you know how you support
that company after the investment and
then build your position in that company
which is kind of the same thing it's two
sides of the same coin so those are the
three things I focus on as a as a as an
LP a GP what's a good funnel what's a
bad funnel what's a good selection
process what's a bad selection process
yeah that's a great question I can
actually show you but I'll show you what
I you know like I said I'm raising this
fund right now and so let me show you
how we do that we're raising 100 million
we're halfway there and if you look at
this funnel we have two podcasts you
mentioned them earlier this weekend
startups gets a half million listens a
year and all in gets more than that now
so well over 100 million listens a year
and what that's resulted in is uh our
common application for funding now uh is
on Pace to do 20,000 applications a year
that's really second only to um why
combinator which I think Gary tan said
they're doing 45,000 applications a year
we sort that down to about in this fund
will'll be doing 5,000 meetings a year
um these are 20 minute what we call
introductory meetings I don't do those
obviously I have 19 full-time people and
our third fund was 44 million so you're
probably asking like how do you have 19
full-time people um the the podcasting
business has become very profitable for
me and the conference businesses so I
take my profits from that and pay for
you know two-thirds of the team with
that uh you know 44 what would you say
your GP commit is this is $100 million
fund how much of your personal Capital
are you investing in operations it would
probably be just over a million dollars
a year so over four years that would be
4 million and so and then I put in
probably in this 100 in this $100
million fund I'll probably put a million
so it probably be 5% um% if you if you
if you put both of those in and then the
previous funds I was always you know the
10 million doll funds do you know the
median GP commit in Venture Capital
across six usually you have yeah usually
you have five or six GPS so let's say
there's six GPS in a $200 million fund
they probably put in a million each
something like that 3% 2% the median is
roughly uh 1.25 1.5% it's very low it's
it's yeah yeah as your funds get B it's
easier to do when your funds are smaller
so I think in the first and the second
fund when they were 10 million I was
going to put 500 in each it be 5% which
isn't a big Cash number um but you know
they they were over subscribed so I cut
myself back because friends wanted to
put in 50 or 25 or 100K so I wound up
being I think 3% of each of those funds
so you're roughly four times the GP
commit in your fund one of the
interesting things about GP commit is
that not only reveals to your LPS your
confidence it reveals to yourself your
confidence I've had deals we've also co-
syndicated some stuff with like Gil pin
was one of my mentors who was was early
to the game great he was the OG
Syndicate yeah yeah and I kind of looked
at it and I said somebody asked me you
know what what are you putting in I'm
putting 10,000 they're like why are you
only putting 10,000 and then I'm like
why am I only putting 10,000 so I I
needed to do more diligence on it myself
so it keeps it not only keeps LPS
aligned with you it also keeps yourself
line with you yeah of course yeah I mean
that was a big controversy in the
beginning U and in fact they went after
Gil for this because Gil at the time
didn't have a lot of cash uh and so he
was putting I think 5K in personally and
I was investing out of my fund so I was
putting in 25 and 50 people like oh you
know Gill's raising half a million or a
million putting in 5K so it's 100 to one
it's 200 to1 and I mentioned earlier you
know my first was like $6 to1 or
something I said listen you you have to
underwrite this yourself right get in
the ARA
and underr this yourself make your own
decision and don't worry about his
commit but you know there was some truth
to that and I think after he made you
know a bunch of money because he was so
good at it Gil put in larger amounts but
in the beginning there were some people
putting in there were some people who
wanted to Syndicate deals while putting
nothing in and you know nval really
deserves a lot of credit and the
angelist team um because they really
looked at all these issues and addressed
them over time like we made a rule in
the early days of angelist that you had
to raise at least a year of Runway
because many people raised two months of
runway on angelist and then you had this
really bad experience for LPS where the
companies would go out of business two
months later I think they made some
rules around the the The Leverage
basically if you're putting in 5K maybe
you could do 50 times but not 500 times
the investment right so they were very
thoughtful about that um and I I took a
lot of notes I think nval is you know
one of the great innovators in venture
capital and I owe him a great debt
because he taught me about spvs and
we've done 200
90 of them I think we might have done
more than anybody as an individual
Syndicate U as an individual somebody
told me gels has done like a very large
number of them because it's a group or
something anyway good friends of ours
and partners of ours um in terms of on
the syndic model I did read your book I
read it again this weekend I read in
2017 when there was much less much less
uh content out there and it was it was
transformative to me but one of the
things that you talk about is writing
Small Checks In a bunch of syndicates
can you explain why you would do that to
start out your LP career yeah great
great idea as a GP to uh or even an LP
to to write Small Checks In companies
that have products in Market because
your failure rate is going to be much
lower you could hit a distribution that
gives you a greater chance of hitting a
power loss so if you had a $100,000
bankroll I'd rather see you put
$3,000 or maybe $2,000 into the lowest
minimum bet size on syndicate put 60k to
work look at those 30 companies pick the
two best and then put 20K into each of
those in a future round then you would
be concentrating on winners when I ask
everybody what do you think the number
is to hit a power law distribution and
hit an outlier in Silicon Valley the
number I most frequently got was 30 some
people would say 20 some people would
say 50 uh so I think you know probably
30 is a pretty good number uh I have
some data for you so I'm not sure if you
uh listened to last week's episode
episode 12 with Jamie Road from verus so
verus is a 10th Generation family office
so they're doing something right but in
terms of their strategy so what they
found out is a very interesting thing so
the average or the me sorry the median
return in venture capital is
10% but the mean is 50% 5 irr so if you
have invested in every single deal
including Uber but also including all
the crap crap deals out there that we
both know uh you would have returned a
50% irr so the very very ambitious goal
in venture capital is actually to get
the mean which is completely different
as you said every other asset class if
you go out and you say pay me uh 20 30%
carry for delivering you the mean you
know people would think you're crazy but
in Venture Capital you want to get the
mean so the next thing that they did was
very interesting they ran a Monte Carlo
simulation figuring out what would be
the odds of hitting the mean with a
number of portfolios and they got to
this interesting number roughly 2,000 of
6,000 credible deals every 3 years so
roughly a third of the market in order
to get 95% confidence of hitting that
mean I want to jump into your portfolio
strategy and portfolio allocation so so
let's talk about that because it is very
unique so yeah finishing this funnel
here because it's a perfect segue um and
and listen I'm very unique those two
podcasts it's the number one startup
podcast and now the number one business
podcast in the world and one of the top
podcasts in the world just period Allin
was number 14 I I look at the episode
rankings over the weekend and it was the
14th most listened to episode that
weekend this is a unique moment in time
for me before Allin I was getting 3 or
4,000 people applying for funding and
now that's gone 5x or something and and
if I do a Tweet now because I my
following doubled with Allin if I do a
if I do a tweet I have 10 open meetings
next week we'll get 500 applicants for
funding so we we have too much deal flow
I talked to my number one uh opportunity
in our in our in our entire portfolio
and I said would you take you you want
to take 25k from jcal really sexy
company and they said absolutely it we
take whatever can you explain why
started are so eager to take money from
somebody like Jason Calis well thank you
very flatter what Founders are aware of
is uh what nval called social proof in
the early days and going to y combinator
or getting sequoia or you know to a
lesser extent myself but probably right
behind those two uh is probably you know
one of the best social proof you can
have as a Founder because if I'm on the
cap table or YC or shoa you will get the
next meeting um and the next meeting is
really important because the precursor
to getting an investment is getting a
meeting and Founders are well aware of
this and so there are a number of
Founders who have collected three of the
four besties there's one some deep madra
who has all four of us on his cap table
I think he's the only one Cafe X has
three of us um the the robotic coffee
machine and so that just opens a lot of
doors and uh when I was a seoa Founder
the first thing that happens after you
close your serus a with seoa is like dag
Ventures or another firm there were all
these firms that specialized in watching
the deal flow of the top two firms at
the time Kleiner and Sequoia this is in
the 2000s and I think in the '90s as
well and then being the preemptive
series B I believe deal flow is Destiny
uh it's what I tell my team and you know
if you have incredible deal flow then
the companies you select and your
criteria becomes more Discerning and so
I have a database and I've built
software that processes these 20,000
applications every year with this fund
it'll probably Double U so by the end of
it we'll have the same deal flow as a y
combinator um uh or and it really
doesn't matter because y combinator I
think Gary said there if they have 4,500
if they have 45,000 applications which
it rings true to me um 1% of that would
be 450 and I think they do 200 startups
a class now twice a year so they're
accepting exactly 1% um we're doing 150
Investments a year so we're also
1sh um and so we have an army of
researchers and analysts sorting through
this deal flow so if you have deal flow
and people want you to be on their cap
table then the only thing left really as
a venture capitalist and it's very hard
to get deal flow every single LP
discussion I have you know I asked them
how they get their deals and you know
then you get a big pause and yeah you
know we're new fund we're first-time
fund I'm meeting with people I have a
network and you know it's like okay I
can look at your LinkedIn contacts or
something but you have to hustle in the
early days and then at a certain point
you go from being a hunter to a Sorter
and so we qualify sort all these and
have access as you said there you know
if there's 6,000 deals that are credible
a year whatever it is I I I think
probably I would say YC sequ and launch
probably have some significant
percentage of of that in of that data
now and so let's say we have some
significant percentage of that now our
job is to sort and the way we sort is I
have 12 criteria at the early stage that
I've identified um as indicative of
future
success I've trained these researchers
and analysts so the researchers um
basically sort them the analyst gets on
the phone call with them the researchers
might join them on that call it's a
20-minute introductory call uh we do
like I said 3,000 of these a year uh and
then uh an associate or a principal or a
managing director will then take the
second call if they hit about three of
those criteria of why we should invest
then we have a 25 criteria of why we
shouldn't invest and those are red or
pink flags as we call them internal
accounting is a nightmare they got cap
table problems they're in a very they've
pivoted five times we call that
Meandering or lost in the wilderness so
we've identified characteristics that we
think uh could equal failure like a solo
founder or they're Outsourcing their
technology development and then we have
criteria we really like like their
business model is high gross margin um
they're Builder Founders and so what
happens is uh I'll be on the road like I
was doing a speaking gig in Tokyo and
somebody sent me this incredible company
Stone algo and it had five of the
criteria any over three we we want to
take that second meeting and so um Stone
algo is kayak for buying diamonds it
should exist in the world it had one
reason we shouldn't invest which is
their business model was not in our Core
5 they were cost per click as opposed to
a Marketplace model which we're fixing
with them and we were able to find this
company before other investors know
about it buy five or 10% of it and so
that's our mandate we want to be the
first investor in the company and then
we want to be the First Institutional
type investor to hit 10% ownership cuz
ownership matters when I was investing
in Robin Hood and Uber I owned under 1%
but then when Comm came along we owned
5% superhuman 2% and then when we had
grin a breakout startup uh we owned 16%
of it that became a unicorn when we had
density a breakout started that became a
unicorn we owned I think 6% and and
that's when you really start to build
the large positions that matter um and
so the criteria of how we move people
through the funnel is very important
then we have a programs team
and then we have direct investing so
unlike say y combinator we have a uh
direct investment team so we will make
those 500k checks 250k checks into
startups you know like Raul's with
superhuman um or Robin Hood or you know
those kind of companies we were able to
invest in if they don't want to come to
the accelerator the number one criticism
of our model by LPS is oh it's spray and
prey and so Ron Conway was known as the
spray and prey investor making tons and
tons of Investments and people didn't
like that strategy even though he was
obviously obviously is a legendary
investor with great Returns what we
decided to do hearing that is to attempt
to do followon investing and so because
people want us on their cap table
because of social proof we don't have to
fight for a spot and at the seed stage
as you know you're passing the hat
anyway it's only at series a in my
experience that people start getting
sharp elbowed and certainly series B
where they just want the whole rounds so
you know inrees and Horowitz is going to
come in give a term sheet it's us
everybody has to give up their proa who
came before us we're inre and Horwitz
I'm Mar and Drees I'm the goat whatever
you know that kind of sharp elbow
nonsense happens later I I I'm a big fan
of many hands make for light work and
being collaborative and so we are very
happy when our companies go to y
combinator or you know if they go to
Sequoia Arc or the new Neo accelerator
and so then we do follow on and so I'll
show you just a peek under the hood here
and while you're doing that one thing I
wanted to highlight that's that's really
nuanced and very interesting is that you
do a small check and then you get an
option for 10% so essentially what
you're doing is you're arbing the social
proof that you're giving to the startup
and you're getting future allocation
correct one of the kind of uh dirty
secrets of VC is especially at the pre
the best way to diligence the company is
to be an existing investor so you get so
much more information when you're in
there so you're able to uh ARB that and
you're able to really take advantage and
pile into the winners but not at the
series a not series B you're not saying
hey I invested at the series D look at
how great I am I'm the best investor in
the world or they want public you're
investing at the seed round so you still
have a lot of the alpha there so if you
look at this Google sheet we get asked
about portfolio construction I like
sharing information because it and and
people think I'm stupid for sharing
information you know like the the angel
book people are like you gave away all
your secrets well you know we're in a
dynamic industry and it's a
collaborative industry so I really like
to share what we're doing and then have
people tell me you know oh you're an
idiot here's what's wrong with it
um so if you look at the sheet you'll
see you know this $100 million fund
which we're about halfway done uh
raising
um it has uh 325k Investments for uh 7.5
million the accelerator will do 150 of
those at 100K for 15 million we'll do 50
directs at 500 KH for 25 million that'll
be the first half of the fund and then
the second half of the fund is follow on
for those and a lot of people will go to
two of those three so you'll be a
Founder University company and we'll
direct invest in you you'll be a Accel
accelerator company and we'll also
direct invest in you so there'll be
about 400 names here in this portfolio
and we use software to monitor them and
then we will um put the bulk of the
dollars into the top 40 and it's a
competition then inside our portfolio
and as you very very very astutely found
out uh or pointed out uh you you know
what you've invested in after you've
given them the money that's something
that people have been saying for a long
time here in silon Valley and so when we
give them that 25 or 100K check we get
to get monthly updates from them and we
have the right to invest in the next two
rounds so when we do those deals we ask
to invest in the next two rounds and we
have that as a side letter and actually
why combinator copied that and so we
copied a lot from y combinator like
multiple Founders go further than solo
Founders having a developer on the team
writing the code as a Founder goes
further so you know I just absolutely
think Paul Graham has probably had the
most Innovative impact on the startup
ecosystem than anybody um and nval would
be a close number two um I think those
two individuals have done the most
Innovative things and I took a lot of
notes from them I think they're amazing
uh I don't know why people are so
contentious in the industry to give them
their flowers it sounds like you gu you
and the YC guys are friends again I
think you know why combinator is uh
always likes to be perceived as the
underdog even though they're they're not
the underdog obviously they're the the
800lb gorilla and all this they're the
they're The Establishment but I think
it's fun to be the you know the outsider
Underdog and I love Gary tan I've always
been a huge fan of his was one of the
first guests on this week in startups uh
I think um alman's amazing uh and I
think Paul Graham is just extraordinary
so nothing but great things to say about
them our companies go to YC we invest in
YC companies people think that we
compete with them on the accelerator but
I think it's only happened three or four
times in hundreds of companies that
somebody said should we go to Y comedy
or your accelerator and I tell them do
both get both stamps in your passport I
mean literally if you could go to both
and dilute we take 6% they take seven if
you diluted 13% and had both of us you
would be easily making up for that in
future rounds um so anyway that's the
portfolio construction so the what the
real key to this is having software and
a very large team the management fees
will not carry the team um it's just too
much um but I'm investing my own money
in this and you know I'm pay playing for
the carry and um that's worked out
pretty well for me in my career so far
the software is the key we build our own
custom software to manage these inbounds
to move them through the process and
then we record all the calls transcribe
them those introductory calls and then
um we summarize them with AI and so and
then we have those criteria I talked
about the 12 reasons to invest the 25
reasons to not invest so in the coming
years we will be able to look at our
database and say hey we passed on this
company seoa did invest to series a pull
up the call let's pull up the uh reasons
we said we wouldn't invest and let's
look at that dialogue and be
self-critical and that really the sins
in Venture are the sins of omission not
commission I'm very focused on getting
better as a in ction and training an
army of people to be really good at that
and so that's why I don't hire GPS from
The Venture pool cuz they're lazy um and
entitled and you know you just see it in
your peers I'm sure taking four or five
months off they disappear for a month in
December you know they disappear for a
month or two in the summer um they leave
the arena for four months a year uh so I
just hire kids out of school uh you know
and I just train them on my methodology
which is to work 60 hours a week and be
a Service Company we're a service
financial services company we are like
the Aman Hotel um if you work for me you
have to do a fixed 50 or solid 60 a week
because that's what I work and if you
don't want to work 50 60 hours a
week you're not going to last my my team
will fire you immediately I think we
just uh triggered uh all of our audience
between 16 and 25 we should have had a
trigger warning we triggered we
triggered 60% and the other 40% are
right now applying saying I want to work
for this lunatic um if you want to get
rich come with me if you want to learn
how to be a world-class investor come
with me if you want to go to Coachella
both weekends go work at another venture
firm you know period full stop the worst
thing you could do first five years of
your career is seek work life balance it
just sets you up for failure the rest
the rest of your career I think those
first five years are really critical if
you want to be a mid uh go for it it is
a competition and if you look at Venture
as not a competition um you will fail um
there are people who are super I can
tell you the seoa team is very
competitive every time I go by that
office you know people are talking about
the transition the last two or three
times I was there Doug Leone was in the
office you know he's retired I don't
know if that's correct uh CU I see him
there uh people like Bill gurley's
retired every time I see him he's
talking to startups and he's on the
boards of all these companies so uh Veno
kosa is in his 70s and he's you know in
meetings all week long yeah V ven's
never going to never uh never going to
leave in my opinion um in terms of
venture cap I think everybody talks
about the world as Zero Sum and non-zero
sum but that's an oversimplification
what part of venture capital is zero sum
and which part is non-zero sum the early
stage is not Zero Sum um there's plenty
of room on the cap table when the
companies you know uh in an accelerator
or doing their seed round it's very very
very rare that a seed round gets taken
by one person and the founders have uh
you know a lot of authority now and uh
they will choose ever since Larry and
Sergey said you know Google and Kleiner
are going to split the round and you're
not going to dictate sequa or Kleiner
we're we're telling you how we're going
to do this that was the starters pistol
it accelerated uh with um Sean Parker's
uh mentorship of Zuckerberg and you know
explaining to him how to control the
investors and then Paul Graham of course
had a big impact on that um in fact why
combinator arguably you know created an
adversarial stance with investors um and
really aggressive tactics of of you know
the um that the convertible notes going
up a million dollars a week and so every
week you take to doe diligence it's
costing you money you're getting a lower
percentage of shares I think that was
Peak YC aggressiveness Sam was like
please don't do that so but you know
listen it's great they're lunatics and
they push people with this demo Day to
you know not due diligence and you know
handshake protocol and everything's high
pressure you know um I I think it's fine
I mean if you can get away with it I
don't think it's particularly health
some of those things um so I advise
people to not feel pressure um and it is
zero sum when you get to the series B
and C the the founders of those
companies when they do their series B
are like what's the highest valuation
the best deal for me how much can I sell
in secondary and what's the least amount
of Rights I can give so you know late
stage funds I think will continue to
make quicker money on large checks um
but with lower irr perhaps so I think
it's a Fine Place to exist but you it's
a different
the late stage is a different asset
class the early stage is an asset class
to your point you know what JP Morgans
Goldman Sachs they don't have access to
the seed round of uber to the seed round
of Robin Hood and they will never will
for the all the reasons we articulated I
think it's also important to note over
40 years the mean return has been 50% IR
it's insane the reason very few people
are aware of that is because nobody gets
nobody gets the winners very few people
know get the winners and the ones that
get the winners don't want to talk about
it so fair point it's it's a it's a good
segue to thanking you for jumping on on
on The Limited partner podcast uh I I
think a lot of people don't realize how
hard of a worker you are how much
thought you've put into your portfolio
construction they just see you talking
up your five you know unicorns and deca
unicorns but I think those are very hard
fought and hard one so I I really
appreciate you Jason thank you for
jumping I lean into that a little bit by
the way it's a little bit of a joke I do
lean into it um but you know we the
thing I learned as well is you're only
as good as your last investment and I
think or or you know your your last fund
and so I focus relentlessly on that you
know I'm really focused on this next
batch of companies and how to help them
so you're only as good as your last
investment thanks for listening to
limited partner podcast if you like this
conversation please like subscribe and
review on YouTube Spotify or apple thank
you for your
support
